Problem Statement:

Initial State:
The plethora of processes happening during the manufacturing of final poultry products is in silos and there was a big disconnect among them. The calculations in each step is manual, not automated, which takes repetitive redundant efforts
 
Final Desired State:
There is a centralized tool which showcases the end to end processes of the poultry manufacturing. It is automated and connected to the data source which can be refreshed with new data.

Questions:
1) What are the KPIs to gauge the sub products performance?
2) What is the suitable layout and apt visuals required for the Tableau dashboard?

Approach:

I have used a 9 step iterative framework for this dashboard creation:

Business understanding:
Poultry is a business which needs proper planning since it takes sufficient amount of time to grow the chickens. The chickens are made to grow in about 14 weeks in the required conditions. So the planning for the demand fulfillment has to be done 14 weeks in advance. This is done with the collaboration of the customers through a face to face meeting with them.

Data understanding:
The data was raw and had to be processed with business rules. There are multiple conditions that should be considered for the allocation of raw materials to each customer demand. 

Demand file:
Week, Month, Year, Customer, SKU, Breed of chicked, Chicken part, Quantity
The customer had flexible specifications like tolerance limits for the bird weights, interchangeable breeds of chickens, restrictions of chickens from certain manufacturing sites

Customer Approvals file
Customer, Site Name

Products File:
SKU, Min weight, Max weight, # of birds required, Chicken Breed, Can be sliced?

Chicken Breed file:
Chicken Breed, Customer, Priority

Site data file:
Site, Manufacturing process, Max Limit

Supply data file:
Site, Chicken breed, Weight, Quantity

Demand data file:
Customer, SKU, Chicken part, Chicken Breed, Quantity
	
Data preparation
Data was present in separate files
Blank / Null Value treatment – All the records with Blank / Null Values were communicated to the client for their correction
Data was transferred from Excel to R platform and converted into schema required for the future algorithm
Some of the data fields were string format and had to be split to numeric
All the birds could not be used for all the demand since some chickens were damaged

Algorithm / Logic preparation:
All the logics like interchangeable Welfare types and interchangeable weights of birds were coded in the algorithm. There is a sequence in which the demand of the birds has to be fulfilled. The data was captured after each step since the client wanted to know the outcome of each step of the manufacturing process
Code to consider allowable weight limits was added which was done on an adhoc basis before

Data Issues:
There were many data sources with Blank / Null Value, which needed clients’ interference on a continuous basis
Business understanding was a tough one since

Dashboard Creation:

1) The dashboard had multiple views each for a single stage of manufacturing
2) The data was created in R which was later transferred to Excel 
3) The visualizations were created in Excel accessing data through VBA codes
4) The final view gave the demand and supply mismatch for each customer

Quality Check:
The numbers in the dashboard was Quality checked by the team and the client several times to avoid any errors.

Deployment:
1) The dashboard was rolled out to the client for its usage in their environment
2) The client connected the dashboard to their main Microsoft access database for automation and its continuous usage

Next Steps:
1)	Required changes to the dashboard, according to the feedback from the clients, should be done

Learnings:
1) Creation of datasets in R 
2) Manipulation of data in R
3) Content about the Poultry business
4) Microsoft Excel VBA basics
